Blog Post: Real-time Data Replication with Debezium and Python (#1106)
debezium/debezium.github.io: _posts/2025-02-01-real-time-data-replication-with-debezium-and-python.adoc

=== Understanding the Components

1. https://debezium.io/[**Debezium:**] A powerful open-source platform for change data capture.
It monitors database transaction logs and produces change event streams, indicating inserts, updates, and deletes.

2. https://github.com/memiiso/pydbzengine[**pydbzengine:**] A Python library that provides a convenient way to interact with the Debezium embedded engine. [.underline]#It simplifies the process of configuring and running Debezium within a Python application.#

3. https://dlthub.com/[**DLT:**] A versatile data loading tool that simplifies the process of extracting, and loading data into various destinations.
In this example, we use DLT to load the change events from Debezium into DuckDB.

4. https://duckdb.org/[**DuckDB:**] An embeddable analytical database that provides efficient data processing capabilities.
It's an excellent choice for local development and testing.

5. https://testcontainers.com/[**Testcontainers:**] A library for spinning up throwaway instances of services, such as databases, for testing.
We use it to manage the PostgreSQL database during the example.

=== Code Breakdown

> The provided code demonstrates a complete CDC pipeline in pyton, from capturing changes with Debezium to loading them into DuckDB with DLT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The provided code demonstrates a complete CDC pipeline in python, from capturing changes with Debezium to loading them into DuckDB with DLT.
```

Let's break down the key parts:

==== 1. Setting up the Environment

Let's begin with setting up the necessary environment, including defining file paths, cleaning up previous runs, and defining a helper class `DbPostgresql` that uses Testcontainers to manage the PostgreSQL database, which acts as our operational data source.

> [%nowrap,python]

Reviewer: I wonder if this would look slightly better as a source block using `[source,python]` ?
Same for the other code blocks.

Author: updated it to ,  `[source,python,options="nowrap"]`

    POSTGRES_PASSWORD = "postgres"
    POSTGRES_DBNAME = "postgres"
    POSTGRES_IMAGE = "debezium/example-postgres:3.0.0.Final"
    POSTGRES_HOST = "localhost"
    POSTGRES_PORT_DEFAULT = 5432
    CONTAINER: PostgresContainer = (PostgresContainer(image=POSTGRES_IMAGE,
                                                      port=POSTGRES_PORT_DEFAULT,
                                                      username=POSTGRES_USER,
                                                      password=POSTGRES_PASSWORD,
                                                      dbname=POSTGRES_DBNAME,
                                                      )
                                    .with_exposed_ports(POSTGRES_PORT_DEFAULT)
                                    )
    PostgresContainer._connect = wait_for_postgresql_to_start

    def start(self):
        testcontainers_config.ryuk_disabled = True
        print("Starting Postgresql Db...")
        self.CONTAINER.start()

    def stop(self):
        print("Stopping Postgresql Db...")
        self.CONTAINER.stop()

    def __exit__(self, exc_type, exc_value, traceback):
        self.stop()
----

#### 2. Configuring Debezium

> We configure Debezium by creating a Java `Properties` object. This object holds the https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/3.0/connectors/postgresql.html[configuration settings] for the Debezium engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We configure Debezium by creating a Java `Properties` object. This object holds the https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html[configuration settings] for the Debezium engine.
```
